docs/reference/filter-syntax.md, before:

---
title: Filter Syntax
parent: Reference
---

Filter issues and pull requests by typing a filter string into the box at the top of TreadI's issue screen.

The filter syntax is similar to [Github search syntax](https://docs.github.com/en/search-github/searching-on-github/searching-issues-and-pull-requests).

* TOC
{:toc}

## Filter Syntax

### Show issues and PRs from one user

*Example: Show all issues and PRs created by the user [sloretz](https://github.com/sloretz).*

```
author:sloretz
```

### Show issues

*Example:*

```
is:issue
```

Alternatively, you may use `type` instead of `is`.

```
type:issue
```

### Show pull reuests

*Example:*

```
is:pr
```

Alternatively, you may use `type` instead of `is`.

```
type:pr
```

### Show draft pull requests

Note, this does NOT exclude issues.

*Example: Show issues and draft pull requests*

```
is:draft
```

Combine with `is:pr` to show only draft pull requests.

*Example: Show only draft pull requests*

```
is:pr is:draft
```

### Show pull requests if a reviewer approved it

Note, this does NOT exclude issues.

*Example: Show issues and pull requests that have been approved*

```
review:approved
```

Combine with `is:pr` to show only approved pull requests.

*Example: Show only approved pull requests*

```
is:pr review:approved
```


### Show pull requests if a reviewer requested changes

Note, this does NOT exclude issues.

*Example: Show issues and pull requests where a reviewer has requested changes*

```
review:changes_requested
```

Combine with `is:pr` to show only pull requests.

*Example: Show only pull requests where a reviewer has requested changes*

```
is:pr review:changes_requested
```

### Show pull requests if they have not been reviewed

Note, this does NOT exclude issues.

*Example: Show issues and pull requests that have not been reviewed*

```
review:none
```

Combine with `is:pr` to show only pull requests.

*Example: Show only pull requests that have not been reviewed*

```
is:pr review:none
```

### Show issues and pull requests from one organization

*Example: Show only issues and PRs from the [ros2 organization](https://github.com/ros2)*

```
org:ros2
```

### Show issues and pull requests from one repository

*Example: Show only issues and PRs from the [ros/rosdistro repository](https://github.com/ros/rosdistro)*

```
repo:ros/rosdistro
```

### Invert a filter

Invert any filter by prepending a `-` character.

*Example: Exclude draft PRs*

```
-is:draft
```

### Combine multiple filters

Combine filters by putting a space between them.

*Example: Show PRs created by `sloretz` that are in any repository except `ros/rosdistro`*

```
is:pr author:sloretz -repo:ros/rosdistro
```

Commit message:

Use base: to filter pull requests by the branch they target (#51)
Signed-off-by: Shane Loretz <shane.loretz@gmail.com>

docs/reference/filter-syntax.md, after:

---
title: Filter Syntax
parent: Reference
---

Filter issues and pull requests by typing a filter string into the box at the top of TreadI's issue screen.

The filter syntax is similar to [Github search syntax](https://docs.github.com/en/search-github/searching-on-github/searching-issues-and-pull-requests).

* TOC
{:toc}

## Filter Syntax

### Show issues and PRs from one user

*Example: Show all issues and PRs created by the user [sloretz](https://github.com/sloretz).*

```
author:sloretz
```

### Show issues

*Example:*

```
is:issue
```

Alternatively, you may use `type` instead of `is`.

```
type:issue
```

### Show pull reuests

*Example:*

```
is:pr
```

Alternatively, you may use `type` instead of `is`.

```
type:pr
```

### Show draft pull requests

Note, this does NOT exclude issues.

*Example: Show issues and draft pull requests*

```
is:draft
```

Combine with `is:pr` to show only draft pull requests.

*Example: Show only draft pull requests*

```
is:pr is:draft
```

### Show pull requests if a reviewer approved it

Note, this does NOT exclude issues.

*Example: Show issues and pull requests that have been approved*

```
review:approved
```

Combine with `is:pr` to show only approved pull requests.

*Example: Show only approved pull requests*

```
is:pr review:approved
```


### Show pull requests if a reviewer requested changes

Note, this does NOT exclude issues.

*Example: Show issues and pull requests where a reviewer has requested changes*

```
review:changes_requested
```

Combine with `is:pr` to show only pull requests.

*Example: Show only pull requests where a reviewer has requested changes*

```
is:pr review:changes_requested
```

### Show pull requests if they have not been reviewed

Note, this does NOT exclude issues.

*Example: Show issues and pull requests that have not been reviewed*

```
review:none
```

Combine with `is:pr` to show only pull requests.

*Example: Show only pull requests that have not been reviewed*

```
is:pr review:none
```

### Show issues and pull requests from one organization

*Example: Show only issues and PRs from the [ros2 organization](https://github.com/ros2)*

```
org:ros2
```

### Show issues and pull requests from one repository

*Example: Show only issues and PRs from the [ros/rosdistro repository](https://github.com/ros/rosdistro)*

```
repo:ros/rosdistro
```

### Show pull requests targeting a specific branch name

Note, this does NOT exclude issues.

*Example: Show issues and pull requests that target branches whose names start with `rolling`*

```
base:rolling
```

Combine with `is:pr` to show only pull requests.

*Example: Show only pull requests that target branches whose names start with `rolling`*

```
is:pr base:rolling
```

### Invert a filter

Invert any filter by prepending a `-` character.

*Example: Exclude draft PRs*

```
-is:draft
```

### Combine multiple filters

Combine filters by putting a space between them.

*Example: Show PRs created by `sloretz` that are in any repository except `ros/rosdistro`*

```
is:pr author:sloretz -repo:ros/rosdistro
```
